Hello again, I (Destin) and welcome back again (the smartest every day), do you know that in the sixties and seventies of the last century
When astronauts went to the moon in Saturn-VIV (Saturn 5), they left
Leave experiments on the moon? In fact there is one and there is still work to date
And it still works. We still get data from them. But before I explain it,
I need to go to the bathroom. [Voice of the toilet]
OK. Here I went to university and we shared this building with NASA, and this is interesting because every time
Wash my hands after using this bathroom, think of the moon. Look here.
On one wall we have a mirror, and on the other wall we have another mirror and two are paved
Now all this is fun, but what I want to talk about today
he is here. No matter where you go in the room,
Always see the camera lens in the corner of the mirror. That's for this
Important applications, for the NASA science on the moon. Now this is important!
I have asked Henry, from MinutePhysics to explain this to you. Let us see what has come to us.
Henry: A reflective angle like this, is a wonderful device, simple and innovative.
It takes advantage of the fact that the mirror reflects after one
From the world. If you have a second mirror, you can reflect the image to the initial position.
But if the second is vertical on the first with 90 degrees, the reflection is reversed
As if the world had rotated 180 degrees. If you send a beam of light
To the reflective angle, regardless of which direction the radiation was sent, or in which direction the reflected angle was directed
The beam of light will always be reflected, rotated 180 degrees by the falling beam
Dozen: If you look here at the top of the camera you can see that my name is reversed
But if you bring it to this side in the corner,
Look at this. You can read it. You can probably see the writing a bit better than on my shirt.
Can not read it ... possible now. This is because you tell the reversal reflection.
But look at this now. If I'm looking at the corner and then tilt the camera up,
I am no longer within the scope of the mirror. I can not see the lens after that. That means I am not
In the real reflection path like Mill tried to explain to me Henry. Henry: That's because those mirrors
Reflect only the two-way horizon. There is no mirror to reflect you
In the vertical direction. If you have a third mirror on a vertical angle,
The mirror image will be reversed (in the horizontal direction), and then reflected again, so the name will be back.
But at least now you can move the camera or your eye where you want,
As long as you can still see all three mirrors, you'll see a reflection of yourself in the middle
Mathematically, if you want to reverse a vector, you need to reverse all its dimensions,
So you need to get three mirrors to get a full, three-dimensional retrograde reflection
One mirror for each dimension. (Destin): Oh. This is just like reflectors on the road.
If you look closely at this reflector, which my wife hit with a piece of grass, you can see
A small reflective angle. (Henry): Exactly! But they are folded.
On purpose, because the reflective, high-resolution angle will return light
Headlamps in your car and not your eyes. (Destin): Oh, oh chance! I have
A set of high-resolution reflective angles here with me in Germany. and who is this?
He is Johann, a laser man from the Netherlands. You remember him, do not you?
This reflective angle is very accurate,
To a degree, I can set it here on this bridge, and go along the river to the next bridge,
And if I hit it with laser and still I can get a reflection, even though it is snowing.
Watch!
What do Johan do ?!
Johann: I'm warming up the laser. Dozen: [laughing] Well.
And ah ... why do you do that? - In order to get the correct temperature.
Because it is very sensitive to temperature. - Oh, okay. Can it be done? Can you infect me?
Inverter there? Here, you obviously get a reflection.
You get a return. What distance do you think 500 meters? - but 350 m
- How do you know that? - Count the steps. [Laugh]
- Well, here's the question. If Johann is able to get a really good reflection
At 350 meters, in the snow, using a manual laser
Which he had blown up in advance to keep him alive, what can we do if we put him down
High resolution laser reflector on the moon. Actually,
That's what the Apollo team did, what team? - 11, 14 and 15.
- Apollo 11, 14 and 15. They put reflectors on the moon
We still use the test for today.
(Henry): That's right. Such as monitoring the distance to the moon. If you calculate the time taken by the photon
To reach the moon and back, you can double the time at the speed of light and divide by two
To know the distance to the moon, accurately up to several centimeters. (Destin): Exactly Henry!
If you have been fired on the moon by laser ...
Will bounce after 2.56 seconds later, divided by two, ie the distance is 1.28 seconds,
to the moon. If you calculate the output ... this is the distance from Earth.
Henry: Anyway, this is useful for understanding nuances
The rotation of the moon and its orbit, and measuring the movement of tectonic dishes here on the ground,
And even test the basic principles of general relativity theory. Dozen: No reflective nook
Used only in optics, you can also use it for any type of reflected electromagnetic radiation.
Here, in Frankfurt Germany, there is a long bridge
Its big pillars are under the bridge. We have a large boat
About to go under the bridge. There are reflective angles. They are not
Mirrors, and even metals. This guy only uses radar to guide
The boat without hitting the bridge. It's basically
Beacon, it is not a light beacon, but a radar.
Henry: Awesome! The reflective angles are like a lighthouse that tells you about the distance,
But it's better because it does not need to source its own versatility. That's why it was a good experience
To leave on the moon. In fact, astronauts have left other undesirable objects on the moon.
Come to my channel, MinutePhysics, and tell you everything about it.
[Music]
This is how the Apollo men went to the bathroom, in the command unit.
What did they do on the lunar vehicle? - (Henry): I imagine it's somewhat similar.
- most likely left on the moon. Do you realize there may be .. - There may be litter on the moon. We did not realize it! [Laughter]
I did not even think about it. We always talk about other things
The stuff they sent. - (Henry) Have you left litter on the moon? [Laughter]
I imagine they should do it, why would they say that? - When I walk long distances, I try to find an excellent place
That man . The man with that won that game. [Laughter]
Henry: Move a mobile toilet. [Laughing] A mobile toilet is out
On the moon.
Translated by خالد بككري amkrro @
Translation in other languages ​​is welcome. Please contact Destin if you can help